Global Threat Intelligence Report1
THREATGLOBAL
INTELLIGENCE 
REPORT
DELIVERING ACTIONABLE AND 
CONTEXTUALIZED INTELLIGENCE 
TO INCREASE CYBER RESILIENCE
Reporting Period: September 1 to November 30, 2022Global Threat Intelligence Report2
CONTENTS
The information contained in this report is intended for educational purposes only. BlackBerry does not guarantee or take responsibility for the accuracy, completeness and 
reliability of any third-party statements or research referenced herein. The analysis expressed in this report reflects the current understanding of available information by our 
research analysts and may be subject to change as additional information is made known to us. Readers are responsible for exercising their own due diligence when applying this 
information to their private and professional lives. BlackBerry does not condone any malicious use or misuse of the information presented in this report.The Last 90 Days in Numbers 
Total Number of Attacks
Geography of Attacks Prevented by 
Cylance Endpoint Security Solutions
Types of Malware Used During 
Attacks in this Reporting Period
Windows
Downloaders
Ransomware
Infostealers
File Infectors
Remote Access Trojans
macOS/OSX
Adware/Spyware
Browser Hijackers
Proxy Malware and Agents
Linux
Bots and Botnets 
Malware and Tooling
Crypto Miners and Cryptojacking
Mobile Devices
Android
iOS
Industry-Specific Attacks
Automotive
Recent Threat Trends
Downloaders
Infostealers
Ransomware
Dual-Use Tools
Wider Automotive Threat Landscape
Supply-Chain Attacks
Trends for the Future
Healthcare
The Financial IndustryMost Active Threat Actors
TA505
ALPHV
APT32
APT29 (the Dukes)
Mustang Panda
TA542
Common MITRE Techniques
Sample Behaviors of Common Techniques
MITRE D3FEND Countermeasures
Most Sound Attacks 
DJVU: Strangely Familiar Ransomware
Mustang Panda Abuses Legitimate 
Apps to Target Victims in Myanmar
BianLian Ransomware Encrypts 
Files in the Blink of an Eye
Unattributed RomCom Threat Actor Spoofing 
Popular Apps Now Hits Ukrainian Military
RomCom Threat Actor Abuses Popular 
Software Brands to Target Ukraine and 
Potentially the United Kingdom
ARCrypter Ransomware Expands Its 
Operations from Latin America to the World
Mustang Panda Uses the Russian-Ukrainian War 
to Attack Europe and Asia Pacific Targets
Additional Attacks
Emotet
CryWiper
Conclusions and Forecast  
for Q1 2023
Lessons Learned/ Takeaways
Q1 2023 Forecast
Resources
Public Indicators of Compromise (IoCs)
Public Rules
Common MITRE Techniques
MITRE Defend Countermeasures23
25
28
29
305
9
1521Global Threat Intelligence Report3
INTRODUCTION
THREAT INTELLIGENCE CAN BE CONSIDERED “THE ART OF 
TAKING THE ADVERSARY BY SURPRISE. ”  ANTICIPATING, 
MITIGATING, AND PREVENTING SURPRISES IN THE FORM 
OF CYBERATTACKS IS THE PRIMARY MISSION OF A 
PRACTICAL THREAT INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.
Achieving that goal requires a proactive approach that answers critical 
questions like the following: Which threat actors are most likely to cause 
an impact in my organization? What are their motivations, goals, and 
capabilities? How do they behave, and what cyber-weapons do they 
use to achieve those goals? And most importantly, what actionable 
countermeasures can I deploy to improve my organization’s cyber defense 
capabilities?
Our team is proud to release our first BlackBerry Cybersecurity Global 
Threat Intelligence Report.  The mission of this report is to provide 
actionable intelligence on targeted attacks, cybercrime-motivated threat 
actors, and campaigns targeting organizations like yours so that you can 
make well-informed decisions and take prompt effective actions. 
In this first edition, you’ll find reports from some of the top threat researchers 
and intelligence analysts on the BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence 
team, world-class experts who understand not only technical threats but also 
local and global geopolitical developments and their impact on organizational 
threat models in each region. To produce this report (covering the 90 days 
between September 1 and November 30, 2022), the team leveraged data and 
telemetry obtained from our own artificial intelligence (AI)-driven products 
and analytical capabilities, complemented by other public and private 
intelligence sources. 
Some of the research highlights in this report include:
• 90 days by the numbers.  An overview of the 90-day reporting 
period in statistics, including the number of unique malware samples 
that BlackBerry prevented from impacting our customers and the 
geographical distribution of those attacks. Here’s a preview: our 
technology stopped an average of 62 new malicious samples per hour, or 
approximately one new sample per minute. 
• Most common weapons.  Information about the most common 
weapons used in cyberattacks, including the resurgence of malicious 
loaders like Emotet, Qakbot’s extensive presence on the cyberthreat 
landscape, and the increase in downloaders like GuLoader. Global Threat Intelligence Report4
TITLE
• Remote access increases infostealers. With the post-pandemic rise 
of remote and hybrid work, the need to access internal networks from the 
outside has become widespread. Attackers are taking advantage of new 
remote access possibilities by using information stealers (infostealers) 
to steal corporate credentials to sell them on the black market. Our report 
discusses some of the most prevalent and widespread infostealers we 
saw deployed during this time period.
• No platform is ‘safe. ’  Threat actors have multiple strategies for 
targeting different server, desktop and mobile platforms. For example, 
despite prevailing opinion, macOS is not a “safer” platform: macOS 
malware and vulnerabilities abound. Other topics covered include trends 
such as the increasing number of attacks against Linux platforms; the 
way that less mainstream programming languages like GoLang are being 
used to develop cross-platform malware; and an in-depth analysis of 
threats affecting mobile devices running Android and iOS.
• Unique industry perspective. Due to our strong presence in both 
the cybersecurity and Internet of Things (IoT) industries, BlackBerry is 
uniquely positioned to uncover threats to industries such as automotive 
that aren’t often discussed in other threat reports. This edition includes 
information about cybersecurity trends we observed that will impact the 
automotive industry as well as the healthcare and financial industries.
• Top threat actors and countermeasures.  Our telemetry also 
revealed the activities of many different threat actors. The report includes 
information about some of their most common tactics, techniques, 
and procedures (TTPs) as well as links to public lists of applied 
countermeasures mapped to MITRE ATT&CK and MITRE D3FEND. Our 
goal is to make it easier to update your organizational defenses and 
threat models based on this actionable information.
• Wrapping up and looking ahead.  Finally, we present our conclusions 
and cyberthreat forecast for 2023. 
I want to thank our elite global researchers on the BlackBerry Threat 
Research and Intelligence team  who made this report possible and continue 
to produce numerous “first-to-market” research reports  while continuously 
improving BlackBerry’s data- and Cylance AI-driven products and services.
Ismael Valenzuela  
Vice President, Threat Research & Intelligence at BlackBerry  
 @aboutsecurity  The data in this report was produced by 
BlackBerry Cybersecurity telemetry and is 
the property of BlackBerry Limited.BLACKBERRY 
CYBERSECURITY THREAT 
INTELLIGENCE AUTHORS
Dmitry Bestuzhev   
Pedro Drimel   
Jacob Faires   
Dean Given   
Eoin Healy    
Geoff O’Rourke   
Jose Luis Sanchez   Global Threat Intelligence Report5
XXXXXXXXXXXX
TITLE
THE LAST 90 DAYS IN NUMBERS  
 
TOTAL NUMBER OF ATTACKS 
In the 90 days between September 1 and November 30, 2022, Cylance® Endpoint Security solutions by BlackBerry 
stopped 1,757,248 malware-based cyberattacks. On average, threat actors deployed approximately 19,524 malicious 
samples per day against customers protected by our technologies. These threats included 133,695 unique malware 
samples, which translates to an average of 1,485 novel malware samples per day and 62 samples per hour: in other 
words, an average of roughly one new sample per minute. 
The following graph shows the dynamics of potential cyberattacks that Cylance Endpoint Security solutions prevented 
between September 1 and November 30, 2022. The spikes during week 4 (September 29 to October 5) and week 7 
(October 20 to October 26) were a result of threat actors reusing malware samples.  
Figure 1: Cyberattacks prevented by BlackBerry per week from September 1 to November 30, 2022
DYNAMICS OF PREVENTED ATTACKS 
2022Global Threat Intelligence Report6
TITLE
GEOGRAPHY OF ATTACKS PREVENTED BY CYLANCE ENDPOINT  
SECURITY SOLUTIONS
Generally, countries with greater Internet penetration, economy, and population experience the most 
threats. Our telemetry shows that threat actors during this period targeted BlackBerry clients in countries 
around the world. 
Figure 2: Countries where BlackBerry protected clients from cyberattacks. Darker blue represents more  cyberattacks. 
Countries without blue shading do not currently contain a statistically significant number of BlackBerry clients. 
COUNTRIES WHERE BLACKBERRY PROTECTED 
CUSTOMERS FROM CYBERATTACKS 
USA
WAS THE MOST PROTECTED 
COUNTRY WITH ALMOST ONE 
MILLION ATTACKS STOPPED.Global Threat Intelligence Report7
TITLE
FIGURE 3 SHOWS THE TEN COUNTRIES WHERE CYLANCE ENDPOINT SECURITY 
SOLUTIONS PREVENTED THE GREATEST NUMBER OF CYBERATTACKS.
Figure 3: Top 10 countries where BlackBerry clients were targeted by cyberattacks
TOP 10 COUNTRIES EXPERIENCING 
CYBERATTACKS IN Q4
United States 
Japan 
Brazil 
Canada 
Australia 
Mexico 
Korea 
Chile 
India 
PeruGlobal Threat Intelligence Report8
TITLE
FIGURE 4 SHOWS THE COUNTRIES WHERE BLACKBERRY CLIENTS WERE MOST  
FREQUENTLY ATTACKED WITH UNIQUE MALICIOUS SAMPLES. 
Figure 4: Top 10 countries where unique malicious samples were used in 
cyberattacks against BlackBerry clientsTOP 10 COUNTRIES WHERE UNIQUE MALWARE 
SAMPLES WERE USED
53%United States 
Japan 
Brazil 
Canada 
Korea 
Australia 
Mexico 
India 
Chile 
SingaporeGlobal Threat Intelligence Report9
TITLE
Between September 1 and November 30, 2022, 
threat actors used a wide variety of malware to 
achieve their financial, geopolitical, military and 
tactical goals. The most widespread and interesting 
malware families identified are organized by 
operating system (OS) below. 
It’s important to note that while Windows® is still the 
most attacked OS, its users may be somewhat better 
prepared to face a malware attack than other OS users, 
who may still believe they are immune to cyberattacks. 
However, BlackBerry® telemetry data shows that 
macOS®, Linux®, and mobile users are also frequently 
attacked: no platforms are immune from infection.
WINDOWS
While malware can run on any OS, Microsoft® Windows® 
remains the most commonly attacked. Reasons 
include the popularity of the OS, the wide range of 
documentation for developers, and the many years of 
cumulative experience in the cybercriminal community, 
where tips and tricks are frequently shared in forums.
Downloaders
Downloaders lure victims to open files that download 
malware. The files frequently pose as legitimate digital 
documents or executables. Common downloaders 
include the following:   •Emotet  is one of the most prolific threats in current 
use. It first surfaced in 2014 and survived an April 
2021 law-enforcement takedown, resurrecting at 
the end of 2021. This past quarter, Emotet resurged 
after a four-month hiatus, using previously seen 
techniques including a phishing campaign that 
distributed malicious Microsoft® Office documents. 
These documents attempt to persuade the victim 
to copy them into an official Microsoft directory, 
where macros are automatically executed without 
asking for the user’s permission. Emotet has 
long been known for dropping the banking Trojan 
IcedID , which has strong connections with multiple 
ransomware groups.
 •Qakbot  is usually delivered through phishing 
techniques, using a lure email. The lure typically 
contains a LNK hyperlink that redirects to a malicious 
webpage containing a password-protected ZIP file 
that contains an ISO file. The LNK file executes a 
JavaScript file, which in turn executes a Qakbot 
malicious DLL with a .DAT extension. An interesting 
Qakbot feature is its use of existing email threads 
as a means of propagation. Its ability to “reply to” 
recipients can make intended victims believe that 
the link or attachment in the existing email thread 
is being sent from a trusted source. Qakbot is 
frequently used by many ransomware groups, and 
was associated this quarter with Black Basta, a 
possible Conti rebrand  that targeted a rash of U.S.-
based companies in 2022.USED DURING ATTACKS IN THIS 
REPORTING PERIODTYPES OFMALWAREGlobal Threat Intelligence Report10
TITLE
 •GuLoader  downloads and implements an executable 
from a remote location, and is frequently used 
to download and execute infostealers such as  
RedLine  and Raccoon . GuLoader commonly abuses 
cloud-based services such as Google Cloud™ and 
OneDrive® to host its payloads; however, we have 
also detected it using Telegram bots.
Ransomware
LockBit  remained the most active and successful 
ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) used in 2022, and the 
90 days covered in this report showed no signs that the 
threat group is slowing down. LockBit has now evolved 
to version 3.0, which uses several anti-debugging 
techniques that make it harder to analyze and string 
encryption and other techniques borrowed from the 
now-retired  BlackMatter  ransomware. 
Infostealers
With the post-pandemic rise of remote and hybrid 
work, the need for outside access to internal networks 
became more widespread. Attackers immediately took 
advantage of increased remote access authorization by 
using infostealers—which were previously used most 
often for cyber-fraud—to steal corporate credentials to 
sell on the black market. Those stolen credentials are 
often used by initial access brokers (IABs) and affiliates 
of ransomware operations to compromise the original 
organizations’ networks and deploy ransomware. 
Infostealers seen during this reporting period include the 
following: 
 •Redline was the most active and widespread 
infostealer seen. Redline is capable of stealing 
credentials from numerous targets including 
browsers, crypto wallets, FTP , and virtual private 
network (VPN) software, and more.  
 •Raccoon infostealer functions as a malware-as-a-
service (MaaS), enabling aspiring cybercriminals 
to use its powerful features for as little as $100 a 
month. While Raccoon was not as widely deployed REDLINE
IS CAPABLE OF STEALING CREDENTIALS 
FROM NUMEROUS TARGETS INCLUDING 
BROWSERS, CRYPTO WALLETS, FTP , 
AND VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) 
SOFTWARE, AND MORE.  Global Threat Intelligence Report11
TITLE
as Redline, it is still considered a potent threat. 
BlackBerry even detected cases where Raccoon 
was dropped by an initial Redline infection. 
Raccoon can steal credentials from crypto wallets, 
browser extensions, Discord, and Telegram; 
take screenshots; and act as a loader to launch 
additional payloads.
In September 2022, threat actors attempted to 
compromise Uber1. The attack was publicly attributed 
to affiliates of the Lapsus$ group. No ransomware was 
deployed in the Uber incident due to the company’s swift 
actions to shut down the attack. 
File Infectors
File infectors work by infecting other executable files 
and can spread through network shares or removable 
devices. The file infector Neshta was first identified in 
2003 and is still observed decades later. Neshta has 
previously been associated with BlackPOS, a point-of-
sale (POS) malware used to scrape credit card data 
from POS systems, which was highly prevalent in 
attacks against the consumer goods, energy, finance, 
and manufacturing industries in 2018. We published an 
in-depth report on Neshta  in 2019 and have continued to 
observe similar traffic every year since then. Remote Access Trojans
Remote access Trojans (RATs) can log keystrokes, 
access the user’s webcam, steal browser credentials, 
and provide attackers a remote shell command-line 
program that can execute shell commands on the 
infected device as well as on other computers in the 
network. RATs observed during this reporting period 
include the following: 
 •njRAT  was initially seen in 2015 and is still one of the 
most popular RATs in use today. It has been deployed 
by financially motivated threat actors as well as 
in more targeted attacks. njRAT’s builder is widely 
available, making it easy for threat actors to adapt it 
to any desired attack model. It is commonly used by 
threat actors in the Middle East, and our proprietary 
telemetry identified an instance of njRAT with a 
command-and-control server (C2) hosted in Jordan. 
 •FlawedAmmyy, which appeared in 2018, is based on 
leaked source code of the valid remote access tool 
Ammyy Admin, which is used by both businesses 
and consumers to handle remote control and 
diagnostics on Microsoft Windows machines. While 
FlawedAmmyy was primarily attributed to cybercrime 
group TA505 (known for performing ransomware 
operations through its Cl0p ransomware ), it is 
commonly used by multiple cybercrime threat actors. 
MACOS/OSX
While macOS is not the most widespread corporate 
platform, it is being installed on a growing number of 
enterprise systems2. Although macOS has a reputation 
as a “safer” platform than Windows, macOS malware 
and vulnerabilities exist. 
Adware/Spyware
Adware and spyware are by far the most widely 
seen threats that impact macOS. These applications 
masquerade as legitimate software, with the underlying 
intent to take advantage of the user. Unlike threats 
that are placed on computers by a targeted infection 34%BLACKBERRY RESEARCHERS NOTED 
THAT A WHOPPING  
 
OF CLIENT ORGANIZATIONS USING 
MACOS HAD DOCK2MASTER ON 
THEIR NETWORK, WHERE IT WAS 
FOUND ON 26% OF THEIR DEVICES.Global Threat Intelligence Report12
TITLE
campaign, users often install adware and spyware 
themselves because they believe them to be legitimate 
applications and they are unaware of the (often free) 
software’s dangers. During the 90-day reporting period, 
the malicious application Dock2Master was the most-
seen threat on macOS: BlackBerry researchers noted 
that a whopping 34 percent of client organizations 
using macOS had Dock2Master on their network, where 
it was found on 26 percent of their devices. Officially 
designated as a potentially unwanted application (PUA), 
Dock2Master surreptitiously injects ads directly into web 
pages that users visit and collects user and system data 
to sell on the underground market. 
Browser Hijackers
Browser hijackers, which change a browser’s search 
engine and manipulate other browser settings, aren’t 
as prevalent as they were in the early 2000s, but they 
are still plentiful. While the most noticeable effect of 
a browser hijack is the user’s default search engine 
changing without their consent, browser hijackers also 
may monetize the installation by stealing user identity 
information stored in browsers and injecting ads into 
displayed web pages. This quarter, active browser 
hijackers included OriginalModule and SearchInstaller, 
which uses InstallCore to target multiple platforms.
Proxy Malware and Agents
Proxy malware is a type of Trojan that turns an infected 
system into a proxy server that allows an attacker to 
execute actions on your behalf. Proxy agents are proxy 
malware that also add RAT-like capabilities, such as 
running local commands on infected machines. Proxy 
malware typically tends to support fewer functions than 
other malware types, allowing it to target a larger range of 
victims because fewer libraries are required. The GoLang 
programming language is used heavily in this class of 
malware because its support for proxy libraries like Proxit 
make development easy for novice cybercriminals.
BlackBerry has noticed the increasing use of GoLang to 
target macOS systems as part of a wider cross-platform attack against multiple platforms for opportunistic 
attacks like malicious spam (malspam). To operate 
effectively on multiple platforms, these attacks rely on 
simple functions that exist across all platforms. Most 
proxy malware samples observed are proxy agents that 
attack browsers that are available on multiple platforms.
LINUX
The Linux operating system is powerful, flexible, largely 
open-source, and ubiquitous: up to 90 percent of 
public cloud services run on Linux3. As a result, Linux 
is an appealing target for cybercriminals who rapidly 
weaponize and exploit weaknesses and vulnerabilities 
disclosed by vendors or other industry players.
Bots and Botnets
A bot is an autonomous program that executes 
commands without human intervention, and a botnet 
is a group of bots controlled by a single threat actor. 
Botnets are typically formed by taking advantage of a 
misconfiguration or unpatched vulnerability that allows 
installation of malicious code that adds the victim’s 
computer to the botnet. Since the emergence of the now-
infamous Mirai  bot-network that conducted large-scale 
distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks in 2016, 
more Linux botnets have emerged.
Noted Internet Relay Chat (IRC) botnets like ShellBot  still 
lingered at the end of 2022, using brute-force tactics to 
enter systems via misconfigured or default credentials4. 
In addition, we’ve seen the Sysrv botnet abusing remote-
code execution (RCE) flaws5 via CVE-2022-229476 to 
compromise systems and grow their botnet at scale.
Malware and Tooling
BlackBerry observed and identified other malware 
and malicious tooling during this reporting period. 
SSH tooling (based on the secure shell protocol that 
enables remote access) is often dropped in tandem 
with malicious code to brute-force credentials and/or 
scan networks for propagation opportunities. During the Global Threat Intelligence Report13
90-day reporting period, use of the tool Faster than Lite 
(FTL) increased. The tool is often abused by threat group 
OutLaw7 and was noted to be bundled with ShellBot. 
Our telemetry revealed similar campaigns deploying the 
GoLang-based SSH brute-force tool Spirit, which is also 
abused as a propagation tool. Spirit is typically dropped 
alongside the Pwnrig and Tsunami IRC bots, which we 
can attribute with reasonably high confidence to the 
hacking group 8220 Gang.
The now-infamous Log4j  vulnerability was regularly 
abused by various malware families and threat actors 
during the reporting period.  For example, the Kinsing 
Trojan abused the Java Log4j package vulnerability8 
CVE-2021-442289 for RCE on Linux platforms, and has 
been seen more recently abusing Oracle WebLogic 
Server vulnerability10 CVE-2020-1488211. This Trojan  
attempts to disable a device’s security and cloud service 
agents and kill any rival malware and cryptocurrency 
miners (crypto miners) on the victim system before 
deploying its own crypto miner.
Crypto Miners and Cryptojacking
Cryptojacking is a widespread scheme in which a 
threat actor installs malicious crypto mining software 
on a victim’s device to mine cryptocurrency coins 
without the user’s consent. Crypto miners have been a 
persistent plague on the cyberthreat landscape for the 
past decade. Crypto miners affect all major computing 
systems and can linger a long time before discovery. 
Even though cryptocurrency in general lost value during 
the reporting period, deploying crypto miners at scale 
can generate tangible financial benefits for threat actors. 
Overall, despite the market changes, crypto is still king 
for many of these Linux-based threat actors.
This quarter, crypto miners made up a significant 
portion of the threats targeting Linux devices. The act of 
crypto mining has become more resource-intensive and 
therefore more costly. As a result, attackers have begun 
compromising the environments of multiple victims to 
deploy miners and misappropriate needed computing THIS QUARTER, CRYPTO 
MINERS MADE UP A 
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE  
 
 
 
 
TARGETING LINUX DEVICES.THREATSGlobal Threat Intelligence Report14
TITLE
resources. Both the previously mentioned ShellBot and 
the Sysrv bot infiltrate systems, deploy crypto miners, 
and hijack system resources.
Typically, crypto miners make their way onto a victim’s 
environment post-compromise through a dropped 
payload or by exploiting a vulnerability such as CVE-
2022-2613412 (Atlassian Confluence) or CVE-2019-272513 
(WebLogic), as frequently seen14 with the PwnRig crypto 
miner. Crypto miners attempt to blend in with standard 
background resources such as cron jobs (which schedule 
routine tasks to repeat at specific times in the future) and 
remain undetected for as long as possible. 
The quarter also revealed detections related to 
CryptoNight, a mining algorithm used to secure networks 
and validate transactions in some cryptocurrency such 
as Monero and Webchain, including a spike in the use 
of the Webchain miner as well as several XMRig-based 
miners. XMRig is a popular open-source utility commonly 
used to mine cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin and 
Monero, and is one of the most abused coin miners by 
threat actors today.
MOBILE DEVICES
Mobile devices continue to replace laptops and desktop 
computers for many functions, including electronic 
banking, mobile payments, messaging apps, and social 
networks. In fact, 59.54 percent of all Internet traffic in 
2022 was generated by mobile devices15. 
Android
In 2022, nearly 71 percent of mobile devices worldwide 
used the Android™ operating system. Threats during the 
reporting period include the following: 59%
OF ALL INTERNET TRAFFIC IN 2022 WAS 
GENERATED BY MOBILE DEVICES.
 •Lotoor  is a tool that can be used for both benign and 
malicious purposes. Android owners can use Lotoor to 
root or unlock additional capabilities on their devices, but 
the tool can also be used to bypass Google’s embedded 
security features and implant persistent malware.
 •AdvLibrary infects devices to monetize Internet traffic 
by showing unsolicited ads and generating outgoing 
traffic on paid ads. Victims typically do not experience 
a direct financial loss, but they may incur additional 
expenses for increased data traffic. Cybercriminals 
generate income with AdvLibrary through clicks on 
ads and traffic to maliciously advertised sites.
iOS
iOS® is generally considered to be a more secure mobile 
OS than others. While zero-day iOS exploits are expensive 
and rarely used in uncontrolled attacks, iOS is not immune 
to exploits that “jailbreak” or unlock iPhone® devices, a 
potentially hazardous activity that removes original Apple® 
security features and provides complete access to the 
device. While some owners intentionally jailbreak their 
iPhones for purposes like removing unwanted default 
apps, jailbroken phones are vulnerable to attacks. 
Many levels of threat actors rely on iPhone jailbreaks 
to deploy implants onto victims’ devices. For example, 
Vortex is a potentially malicious malware family that 
targets iOS users. Like Lotoor for Android, Vortex is a 
rooter that can jailbreak iPhones that cybercriminals can 
use to install malware. This technique is most common 
among mid-level threat actors without the technical 
capability to launch zero-day threats. In the past quarter, 
BlackBerry saw at least two different versions of Vortex 
intended to jailbreak iOS devices.OVERGlobal Threat Intelligence Report15
TITLE
While every industry is susceptible to cyberattacks, the 
automotive, healthcare, and financial industries present 
unique opportunities for cybercriminals. 
AUTOMOTIVE
The century-old automotive industry is in the midst 
of a major technological revolution. Breakthrough 
technology advances are enabling the development 
of new types of vehicles, systems, and services. This 
digital transformation offers many benefits but has also 
introduced new cybersecurity challenges. 
As vehicles become more connected and autonomous, 
they become potentially more vulnerable to cyberthreats 
and threat actors. In addition, the increasingly complex 
manufacturing systems that produce vehicles are also at 
risk of cyberattacks. 
In previous years, the automotive industry was relatively 
unaffected by large-scale and highly publicized threats. 
However, malicious entities have begun targeting not only 
automobile manufacturers but the industry as a whole 
through efforts to disrupt operations, steal sensitive data, 
and compromise supply chains. In 2022, we observed 
an increase in both the number of malicious entities 
targeting the auto industry and the amount of disruption 
that they cause. 
To protect against these threats, companies in the 
automotive industry must recognize the potential risks 
inherent in a more connected automotive future and 
implement strong cybersecurity measures to protect 
vehicles and drivers.Recent Threat Trends
Because of its global scale, the automotive industry 
presents an immense number of endpoints to monitor 
and protect. It includes every organization in the value 
chain, from companies that source raw building materials 
all the way up to automotive dealerships and automobile 
owners. The vast digital attack surface of this complex 
supply chain must be secured to keep this important 
global business operational. 
Attacks between September 1 and November 30, 2022 
ranged from sophisticated spearphishing to commodity 
malspam, indicating that the automotive industry is 
constantly under attack from both advanced and novice 
cyber adversaries. 
Downloaders
Malware downloaders are prevalent in almost every type 
of cyberattack, and can vary in appearance, file type, and 
relative sophistication of the techniques they use to enter 
systems. Deceptive threat actors coax unwitting victims 
to install the downloader as the first part of a cyberattack. 
Once the code is executed, downloaders install additional 
malicious code and payloads to carry out more wide-
reaching cyberattacks. 
GuLoader is a prime example of a downloader that 
targeted the automotive industry during this reporting 
period. The malware was first identified in 2019 and 
continues to evolve. GuLoader often poses as legitimate 
digital documents or executables before downloading 
other commodity malware. AT TACKSINDUSTRY-SPECIFICGlobal Threat Intelligence Report16
TITLE
Infostealers
The automotive industry’s valuable and often proprietary 
data makes the industry a prime target for cyber thieves. 
This data is a commodity that can often be more valuable 
than the vehicles themselves.
Malware infostealers are a type of malicious code that 
seeks out and illicitly exfiltrates data from a victim’s 
system that can then be used to support financial and/
or tactical goals. Infostealers can be used in conjunction 
with RATs like Remcos  as commodity malware that is 
often sold as a service for other threat actors to gain 
malicious access and control of victim systems.
Ransomware
Ransomware is every security team’s nightmare, and threat 
actors know that ransomware targeting industry supply 
chains can be devastating. In the automotive industry, a 
ransomware attack at any stage of the supply chain could 
cease production or distribution, causing loss of revenue 
and reputation throughout the industry’s ecosystems. 
BlackCat  ransomware wa s observed in some of the 
more notorious ransomware attacks throughout 2022. 
Often preying on small- to medium-sized business, the 
cybercrime groups who use this particular RaaS appear 
to be largely financially motivated and have largely 
targeted manufacturing. BlackCat ransomware infiltrates 
48%
OF CAR THEFTS WERE 
VEHICLES EQUIPPED WITH 
KEYLESS TECHNOLOGY .an environment, exfiltrates valuable data, and then 
encrypts connected systems. 
ALPVH (the threat group behind BlackCat ransomware) 
frequently uses double-extortion ploys, often publicizing 
compromised victims’ data via their leak site (a website 
that hosts stolen private and potentially sensitive 
documents). Their goal is to pressure the targeted 
organization to pay the ransom, capitalizing on the fear 
that more valuable data will be published or sold to 
competitors16.
Dual-Use Tools
Dual-use applications are typically legitimate tools and 
software that offer features or functions  that threat 
actors can potentially misuse or abuse. The term “living 
off the land” (LotL) describes the actions of threat actors 
who abuse legitimate tooling to bypass security systems 
and avoid detection.
Threat actors increasingly rely on dual-use tools instead 
of malicious code to propagate within an environment, 
exfiltrate valuable data or even deploy malware as an 
“allowed” tool. System administrators should remove all 
dual-use tools for which there are no valid use cases or 
business justification. 
Wider Automotive Threat Landscape  
Because of the proliferation of “smart” and Internet-
connected features in modern cars and the advent 
of software-defined vehicles  (SDVs) that receive and 
manage new features through software updates, 
vehicles present an increasingly enticing attack surface 
for threat actors. In fact, estimates show that that there 
will be as many as 775 million connected cars on the 
road by 202317. The number of attempted cyberattacks 
is likely to increase because adversaries know that 
disruptions of any kind cannot be tolerated during 
production, manufacturing, shipping, and sales. 
Various types of direct attacks on vehicles have 
occurred in the last few years, and keyless-entry-enabled 
vehicles have been shown to be particularly vulnerable. Global Threat Intelligence Report17
TITLE
In fact, data from U.K.-based insurance company LV= 
General Insurance shows that 48 percent of car thefts 
were vehicles equipped with keyless technology18. 
Europol announced in October 2022 that it dismantled a 
European car theft ring that targeted keyless-entry and 
keyless-start vehicles, using fraudulent software to steal 
vehicles without a physical key fob19. (The disclosure 
occurred after the exploit was reported and patched.) 
Overall, the automotive industry has suffered a near-
continuous string of cyberattacks over the last five years, 
including data breaches, ransomware, and attacks by 
advanced persistent threat (APT) groups. The number of 
threats spiked in 2022 and is likely to continue because of 
the proliferation of embedded technology in new vehicles. For example, in 2017, an automobile manufacturer 
fell victim to WannaCry ransomware20, which forced 
them to briefly halt production. In 2019, the group 
APT32 (also known as OceanLotus) emerged21, which 
some sources link with providing support to Vietnam’s 
automotive sector22. The same group also targeted 
and compromised other automotive manufacturers’ 
networks23. From 2020 to 2022, the number of attacks 
(predominantly ransomware) increased. In 2022, notable 
ransomware attacks affected one of Europe’s biggest car 
dealerships24, a Dutch specialist vehicle manufacturer25, 
and an American tire manufacturer26. 
The figure below shows a timeline of a sample of larger 
attacks reported within the auto industry in 2022.  
LARGE AUTOMOTIVE ATTACKS 2022
2022
Figure 5: Timeline of larger automotive attacks in 2022.Global Threat Intelligence Report18
TITLE
Supply-Chain Attacks
Both the pandemic and the Russian invasion of 
Ukraine have revealed that supply chains are fragile. 
The automotive industry is not immune to the delays, 
shortages, and disruptions that other industries face. 
Given the complexities of the industry, many businesses 
rely on a just-in-time (JIT) supply-chain strategy to 
maintain their vast ecosystems of vendors, parts, and 
manufacturers, creating an extremely large attack 
surface that can potentially be exploited by threat 
actors. The hallmark of JIT strategy is that products 
are not manufactured until they are needed. As a result, 
manufacturing may be slowed or stopped if needed 
components and materials are not immediately available. 
As a result, a cyberattack within the supply chain can 
effectively halt automobile production. 
Instead of directly targeting auto manufacturers, which 
may be heavily fortified against intrusions, malicious 
adversaries may instead attack its various vendors, 
especially those with less cybersecurity. For example, in 
March 2022, compromised file systems at plastic and 
electronic supplier resulted in production delays for an 
estimated 13,000 vehicles at a Japanese automotive 
company. According to a spokesperson quoted by 
Automotive News Europe, the automotive company’s 
supply chain includes 60,000 companies across four 
tiers27. Cyberattacks anywhere in a supply chain of that 
size can potentially impact the ability of other companies 
to receive necessary parts and materials. 
Trends for the Future
As discussed above, the automotive industry’s sprawling 
supply chains and business ecosystems present 
attractive targets for cyberattacks. However, the industry 
is taking steps to build greater security and resilience. 
In 2022, the Swedish state-backed research institute 
RISE announced the launch of the RISE Cyber Test 
Lab for Automotive Cyber Security, which is designed 
to be Europe’s most advanced hub for automotive 
cybersecurity. It plans to start advanced testing in 2023. In addition, NHTSA’s Cybersecurity Best Practices for 
the Safety of Modern Vehicles, updated in 2022, strongly 
recommends vehicle manufacturers and suppliers to 
protect, detect, and respond to cyber risks across the 
whole vehicle lifecycle28. This guidance is supported by 
the global automotive cybersecurity engineering standard 
ISO/SAE 21434. 
HEALTHCARE 
The healthcare industry is facing an increasing number 
of cyberthreats as threat actors target healthcare 
organizations for their highly confidential data and 
valuable information. This is a significant issue for 
healthcare providers, as a successful cyberattack 
can have serious consequences including the loss or 
publication of sensitive patient data, financial losses, 
and even direct physical harm to patients. Healthcare 
is particularly vulnerable to these threats due to a 
combination of factors including the widespread use 
of medical technology with a long service life, the 
complex and often interconnected nature of healthcare 
systems and the vast amounts of sensitive data that 
are routinely collected and stored. It is imperative that 
healthcare providers understand the dangers of the 
current cyberthreat landscape and proactively protect 
themselves and their patients from potential harm.
Overall, ransomware still poses the biggest threat to 
the healthcare industry, and threat groups that rely on 
ransomware are still very actively targeting it, as we 
can see by the ransomware attack on CommonSpirit 
Health in October, where data belonging to more than 
600,000 patients was compromised29. In the past, some 
RaaS groups like Maze indicated they would not attack 
hospitals, but such promises cannot be guaranteed. With 
the diversity of multiple RaaS groups and the proliferation 
of affiliate models, the group that executes an attack 
may not be the same group that developed the malware, 
which makes tracing and attribution a concern. 
According to our telemetry, Cylance Endpoint Security 
solutions stopped 7,748 unique malware samples 
targeting the healthcare industry during this reporting Global Threat Intelligence Report19
XXXXXXXXXXXX
period, accounting for an average of more than 80 unique 
malware samples per day. The most popular Trojan was 
Qakbot, which has been used by cybercriminals since 
at least 2012 and poses a high risk to the healthcare 
industry. In 2022, Qakbot was mostly used by affiliates 
deploying Black Basta ransomware. Because Emotet 
did not operate many campaigns after its recent four-
month shutdown and TrickBot  seems more focused 
on improving its Bumblebee malware, we believe that 
Qakbot continues to be the most active Trojan facilitating 
healthcare network access for RaaS affiliates and IABs. 
Meterpreter (a Metasploit payload that provides an 
interactive shell for the attacker) and BloodHound 
were also active during this timeframe. We detected an 
attack that used Meterpreter alongside the execution 
of SharpHound, a collector for BloodHound that is 
commonly used for lateral movement inside a network 
after an attack takes place. The Cybersecurity and 
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) recommends that 
network and system administrators intentionally execute 
BloodHound themselves to understand possible attack 
paths on their environments30.
We also observed TinyNuke dropping the Netwire RAT. 
Originally a banking Trojan with similar functions as ZeuS , 
TinyNuke is a fully featured Trojan that includes the VNC 
server device controller and reverse SOCKS functionality. 
TinyNuke has also been used by Kimsuky Group31 and 
attributed to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
(DPRK). While examining this attack, we found TinyNuke downloading and executing Netwire RAT  and connecting 
to a domain hosted on DuckDNS, which is commonly 
used by RATs.
BlackBerry researchers also found an instance where an 
unknown threat actor deployed the PlugX RAT, which is 
commonly used by multiple nation-state threat actors 
including Mustang Panda (learn more in our  public 
report ), indicating that both cybercriminals and nation-
state actors are interested in attacking the healthcare 
industry. And, while we haven’t seen infostealers  like 
Redline and Raccoon specifically targeting healthcare, 
we did encounter an instance of GuLoader, a downloader 
commonly used by cybercriminals to deploy infostealers.
THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY 
The financial industry has historically been targeted by 
cybercriminals as well as nation-state threat actors who 
reside in areas affected by financial sanctions. During 
this 90-day reporting period, Cylance Endpoint Security 
solutions stopped 9,721 unique malware samples 
launched against targets in the financial industry, with 
an average of about 108 unique malicious samples 
identified per day. 
Different threat actors, including nation-state actors, have 
relied on commercial penetration testing (pen testing) 
tools like Cobalt Strike  and others to blur the attribution 
line between cybercriminals and legitimate testing 
activities. This confusion gives cybercriminals more time PATIENTS’ DATA WAS COMPROMISED IN THE RANSOMWARE 
ATTACK ON COMMONSPIRIT HEALTH IN OCTOBER.600,000Global Threat Intelligence Report20
TITLE
to operate within a network after they gain access. In 
2022, we witnessed several incidents where commercial 
adversary-simulating software including Cobalt Strike 
and pen testing software Metasploit, Mimikatz, and 
Brute Ratel were used inside financial institutions. 
Brute Ratel is an adversarial attack simulation tool, and 
attackers and security professionals both commonly 
use Mimikatz to extract confidential information such 
as passwords and credentials from a system’s memory. 
At this time, it is not known whether the presence of 
Mimikatz and Brute Ratel were part of legitimate pen 
testing activities or real attacks.
Among other top threats, we stopped initial-access 
infostealers such as Redline Stealer . It is publicly known 
that initial access tools are in high demand because they 
gain access to victims’ networks that can then be sold. 
Many threat actors, including the Lapsus$  group, rely on 
infostealers to gain access to enterprises. (The Lapsus$ 
group is an international extortion-focused threat group 
known for numerous cyberattacks against companies 
and government agencies.)
Cylance Endpoint Security solutions have also stopped 
miscellaneous attacks connected to crypto mining 
and attacks on Linux ecosystems, which are attractive 
targets because of the relative lack of visibility compared 
to the Windows world. One example is the backdoor 
Rekoobe,  a Linux Trojan that has been actively targeting 
victims worldwide for at least seven years32. 9,721 CYLANCE ENDPOINT SECURITY 
SOLUTIONS STOPPED  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIQUE MALWARE SAMPLES 
LAUNCHED AGAINST TARGETS IN 
THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY .Global Threat Intelligence Report21
XXXXXXXXXXXX
Our telemetry revealed the activities of many different 
threat actors. Some of the attackers included in this 
section were mentioned in the preceding sections 
about specific types of attacks or industry sectors. 
TA505
TA505 is an active and influential cybercrime group with 
significant impact in the world of financially motivated 
cyberthreats. The group’s targets include education, 
finance, healthcare, hospitality, and retail worldwide.
They are known for sending large volumes of malicious 
email and have a wide range of malware at their 
disposal, indicating strong connections to underground 
malware networks. Currently, the group continues to use 
Locky  ransomware as their primary tool for attacks, but 
it has also been known to experiment with other types 
of malware.
TA505’s toolset includes Cl0p ransomware, the 
FlawedAmmyy RAT (which was based on leaked source 
code for a version of legitimate tool Ammyy Admin), and 
banking Trojans like Dridex .
ALPHV
ALPHV  is a relatively new and rapidly growing 
cybercrime group that has gained attention for 
innovative extortion tactics and unconventional attack 
methods. Despite its relatively short history, the group has made a significant impact in the cybercrime 
community and is likely to continue to evolve and 
expand its operations33. 
ALPHV is well known for using Rust, a powerful 
programming language that allows the threat operator 
to use one code base on many different operating 
systems. The group uses multiple LotL binaries, scripts, 
and libraries (LOLBins) to achieve their objectives. 
BlackCat RaaS is deployed as part of the final stage 
of ALPHV hacking campaigns after the group has 
completed lateral movements within specific hosts and 
collected all the information they were seeking. ALPHV 
then begins financial extortion, and has even threatened 
to carry out DDoS attacks to coerce victims to pay the 
ransom. With the release of BlackCat ransomware as a 
RaaS, the hacking group has joined the rapidly growing 
malware trend of double-extortion attacks that both 
exfiltrate data and encrypt data for ransom.  
The ALPHV group does not appear to target a specific 
sector or country. Because ALPHV allows other threat 
actors to use BlackCat ransomware, the presence of the 
malware does not necessarily indicate a direct attack 
by ALPHV. To date, BlackCat ransomware has struck 
retail, financial, manufacturing, government, technology, 
education, and transportation in countries that include 
the U.S., Australia, Japan, Italy, Indonesia, India, and 
Germany34.ACTORSMOST ACTIVE
THREATGlobal Threat Intelligence Report22
TITLE
APT32
APT32 is believed to be based in Vietnam and has 
conducted malicious cyber activities since at least 2014. 
Its targets have included various private industries, 
foreign governments, and individuals like dissidents and 
journalists, with a particular focus on Southeast Asian 
nations including Vietnam, the Philippines, Laos, and 
Cambodia. APT32 frequently employs tactics such as 
strategic web compromise to gain access to victims’ 
systems. This sophisticated group has also attacked 
defense organizations, high-tech companies, healthcare, 
and manufacturing.
The BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence team 
has analyzed multiple APT32 intrusions. The group has 
used a suite of RATs dubbed Ratsnif  to leverage new 
network attack capabilities. We also identified the group’s 
use of steganography  (the technique of hiding secret 
data within an ordinary, non-secret file or message) to 
embed a malicious payload in a PNG image. 
APT29 (THE DUKES)
APT29, also known as the Dukes, are a well-funded and 
highly organized group suspected of conducting cyber 
espionage on behalf of the Russian government since at 
least 2008. The group particularly targets governments 
and non-governmental organizations in North America 
and Europe; however, entities across Asia, Africa, and the 
Middle East have also been attacked.
The group frequently uses Cobalt Strike, Mimikatz, and 
AdFind (a free command-line query tool that can be used 
to gather information from Active Directory). The group 
has also developed a set of custom tools that includes 
CloudDuke, CozyDuke, and FatDuke, among others. 
In addition, APT29 is known to exploit vulnerabilities 
affecting some products to access their victims’ 
systems.MUSTANG PANDA
Mustang Panda  is a China-based APT group that has 
been identified as a cyber espionage threat actor. The 
group was first detected in 2017 and may have been 
active since 201435. Mustang Panda has targeted a wide 
range of organizations including government agencies, 
nonprofits, religious institutions and non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) in countries around the world 
including the U.S., Europe, Mongolia, Myanmar, Pakistan, 
and Vietnam.
The group frequently uses China Chopper and PlugX 
for its operations. PlugX is a modular RAT that 
can be configured to use both HTTP and DNS for 
command-and-control (C2) activities. China Chopper is 
malicious software hosted on web servers that allows 
unauthorized access to an organization’s network and 
does not require an infected device to communicate 
with a remote C2 server. 
The BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence team 
has also discovered recent activity in which Mustang 
Panda used global interest in the Russian-Ukrainian war 
to attack targets in Europe and Asia Pacific regions .
TA542
The cybercriminal group TA542 is believed to have played 
a significant role in creating the Emotet malware. This 
malware was first discovered in mid-2014 and shares 
certain characteristics with the Bugat (also known as 
Feodo) banking Trojan, enhanced with the addition of an 
RSA key exchange for C2 communication and a modular 
design. TA542 does not follow the typical behavior 
patterns of cybercriminal organizations and generally 
carries out attacks for a short period of time, after which 
they take a break for several months before returning 
with a new version or variant of the malware. Targets of 
TA542’s campaigns include the education, financial, retail, 
and healthcare industries.Global Threat Intelligence Report23
XXXXXXXXXXXX
TITLE
COMMON MITRE TECHNIQUES 
The BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence team utilizes multiple MITRE techniques, event analysis and 
telemetry to analyze threats. Common MITRE techniques used during this reporting period are listed in the following 
table. A full list  of MITRE techniques used by the BlackBerry team is located in the MITRE ATT&CK® Navigator Layer. 
 
             TABLE 1: COMMON MITRE TECHNIQUES AND TACTICS 
MITRE Technique Technique ID Tactic
System Information Discovery T1082 Discovery
Process Injection T1055 Defense evasion
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion T1497 Defense evasion
Remote System Discovery T1018 Discovery
Masquerading T1036 Defense evasion
Application Layer Protocol T1071 Command-and-control
Software Packing T1027.002 Defense evasion
Security Software Discovery T1518.001 Discovery
Process Discovery T1057 Discovery
Disable or Modify Tools T1562.001 Defense evasion
Application Window Discovery T1010 Discovery
Windows Management Instrumentation T1047 Execution
Query Registry T1012 Discovery
Obfuscated Files or Information T1027 Defense evasion
Modify Registry T1112 Defense evasion
File and Directory Discovery T1083 Discovery
Encrypted Channel T1573 Command-and-control
Command and Scripting Interpreter T1059 Execution
Rundll32 T1218.011 Defense evasion
Regsvr32 T1218.010 Defense evasion
Most of the techniques listed are related to defense evasion and discovery tactics. In general, these tactics and related 
techniques are uncovered during a post-mortem after an infection—use of these techniques requires knowledge of 
previously identified intrusions. Sample behaviors associated with the five most common techniques are listed below. Global Threat Intelligence Report24
TITLE
SAMPLE BEHAVIORS OF COMMON TECHNIQUES 
The following table lists the behaviors associated with the most common MITRE techniques.  
            TABLE 2: SAMPLE BEHAVIORS OF COMMON TECHNIQUES
Technique Behaviors
System Information Discovery - T1082 > wmic csproduct get UUID
> query user
> tasklist | findstr “dll”
> systeminfo >> output
> date  /t
Process Injection - T1055 > dllhost.exe
> rundll32.exe
> explorer.exe
> MSBuild.exe
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion - T1497 > timeout 5000
> Start-Sleep -s 100
> Check for registries of VMWare and VirtualBox
Remote System Discovery - T1018 > net group /domain admins
> nltest /domain_trusts /alltrusts
> net view /all
Masquerading - T1036 > Renaming the malware filename as a legitimate-
sounding filename
> Use of .jpg extension for binaries
> Use scheduled tasks with legitimate names like 
win32times and othersGlobal Threat Intelligence Report25
TITLE
MITRE D3FEND COUNTERMEASURES
Understanding common countermeasures can help 
organizations improve their defensive strategies and 
determine whether adequate visibility and/or detection 
techniques are in place. Countermeasures can be based 
on OS events (such as process events that occur in the 
system) or file events (such as creating, modifying, or 
deleting files).
A complete list of attack techniques and associated 
countermeasures is located in our GitHub repository . We 
recommend choosing only countermeasures that you can fully 
implement and that best meet your organization’s needs. 
MOST SOUND ATTACKS
Between September 1 and November 30, 2022, the 
BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence team 
tracked, uncovered, researched, and published the latest 
information about the cyberthreat landscape around 
the world. The world economy is still recovering in 
the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, and current 
geopolitical events in Eastern Europe and East-West 
relations continue to be uncertain. These factors 
converge to create fertile soil for threat actors that 
attempt both politically motivated and financial exploits.  
This quarter, we saw state-affiliated APT groups, 
financially motivated ransomware gangs, and many other 
threat actors of all sizes, capabilities, and motivations 
conducting multiple campaigns. Below is a selection 
of some of the most consequential attacks across the 
global landscape  and our own most significant finds 
during the quarter.
DJVU: STRANGEL Y FAMILIAR RANSOMWARE
DJVU ransomware  masquerades as legitimate services 
or applications and is often bundled with decoy files 
to appear benign. An evolution of the notorious STOP 
ransomware, DJVU has seen many iterations since 
its creation back in 2018. The ransomware uses 
cryptography stream cipher Salsa20 for its encryption 
routine. After carrying out numerous anti-analysis and FOR A COMPLETE LIST 
OF ATTACK TECHNIQUES 
AND ASSOCIATED 
COUNTERMEASURES VISIT 
THE BLACKBERRY GITHUB 
REPOSITORY .Global Threat Intelligence Report26
TITLE
anti-sandbox checks to confirm that it’s running on a 
real system, the malware encrypts multiple file types 
before generating a ransom note with instructions for the 
victim to recover their files. The threat recently became 
even more damaging when the threat actors added pre-
encryption downloader capabilities to the ransomware.  
This quarter, DJVU downloaded and deployed infostealer 
malware in apparent collaboration with the threat groups 
behind Arkei  variant Vidar Stealer and Redline Stealer , 
creating additional paths for threat actors to benefit at 
victims’ expense.
MUSTANG PANDA ABUSES LEGITIMATE 
APPS TO TARGET VICTIMS IN MYANMAR
In early October, we published the results of several 
months of tracking the Mustang Panda APT group. Also 
known as Bronze President, Red Delta, and Honeymyte, 
this group is publicly attributed to China. 
During our investigation, we uncovered a campaign 
targeting Myanmar. The campaign impersonated popular 
Myanmar news outlets and targeted multiple entities 
including a government VPN portal. The infection vector 
in this campaign used phishing lures with malicious 
attachments that fool users into executing them, which 
allows the attackers to gain a foothold on the system. 
The execution chain contained several components, 
including a legitimate benign utility that is susceptible to 
DLL search order hijacking, plus a malicious DLL loader 
and an encrypted DAT payload. After the malicious DLL 
loader is sideloaded, a PlugX payload is loaded into 
memory. The infection vector, execution chain, and use 
of PlugX and overall TTPs conform to Mustang Panda’s 
tried-and-tested campaign methodology.
BIANLIAN RANSOMWARE ENCRYPTS FILES 
IN THE BLINK OF AN EYE
BianLian  is an extremely fast-acting ransomware written 
in the Go programming language (GoLang). In this white 
paper , we predicted the current rise in the malicious use of less commonly used languages like GoLang. Threat 
actors recognize these languages’ potential to create 
malware, especially bespoke ransomware. GoLang offers 
particularly robust support for concurrency, which can 
speed attacks by enabling multiple malicious functions to 
run independently at the same time.
BianLian is a relatively new threat that has targeted a 
wide range of industries. The group behind the malware 
appears to be purely financially motivated, and attacks 
related to BianLian continued through the end of 2022. 
The group appears to heavily exploit the systems and 
networks that they access. Their typical deployment 
method is manual infiltration of systems to gain initial 
access, followed by abuse of LOLBins to explore the 
networks and systems. After gathering this information, 
they deploy their ransomware for financial gain.
UNATTRIBUTED ROMCOM THREAT ACTOR 
SPOOFING POPULAR APPS NOW HITS 
UKRAINIAN MILITARY
In October, BlackBerry uncovered the previously unknown 
RomCom RAT  targeting Ukrainian military institutions. 
The same threat actor was known to deploy spoofed 
versions of the popular Advanced IP Scanner software 
before switching their efforts to PDF Filler (another 
popular application) and may have developed these 
exploits themselves.
The RomCom RAT attempts to take malicious control of 
affected devices. The initial infection vector we observed 
was an email with an embedded link to a fake Ukrainian-
language document called Наказ_309.pdf (Order_309.
pdf in English) that dropped the next-stage downloader. 
During this reporting period, this threat actor was 
observed actively developing new techniques targeting 
victims worldwide. Global Threat Intelligence Report27
TITLE
ROMCOM THREAT ACTOR ABUSES 
POPULAR SOFTWARE BRANDS TO TARGET 
UKRAINE AND POTENTIALL Y THE UNITED 
KINGDOM
After a series of attacks on Ukraine, the same group 
launched new attack campaigns that took advantage 
of popular software brands. The BlackBerry Threat 
Research and Intelligence team uncovered the 
campaigns while analyzing network artifacts identified 
during our earlier research into RomCom RAT .
Our researchers found the threat actor impersonating 
SolarWinds Network Performance Monitor, KeePass 
Open-Source Password Manager, and PDF Reader 
Pro in their campaigns. The campaigns used these 
legitimate companies as fronts and designed fake 
websites that mimic the real ones to coax victims into 
downloading the Remcos RAT malware. The RomCom 
threat actor has continued to actively deploy new 
campaigns targeting victims in Ukraine, and may be 
expanding to English-speaking targets worldwide in 
their latest string of attacks. 
ARCRYPTER RANSOMWARE EXPANDS ITS 
OPERATIONS FROM LATIN AMERICA TO THE 
WORLD
The BlackBerry Threat Investigation team monitored 
the ARCrypter  ransomware family throughout 2022. 
In August, an unknown variant that BlackBerry named 
ARCrypter was found targeting Latin American 
institutions. INVIMA (Colombia’s National Food and Drug 
Surveillance Institute) was temporarily shut down in 
October due to a reported cyberattack36.
Through our threat hunting efforts, BlackBerry identified 
additional samples of interest for this ransomware. Given 
the attack’s timeframe and the contents of the ransom 
note mentioning INVIMA, we concluded with a high 
degree of certainty that ARCrypter ransomware was used 
in the INVIMA cyberattack. Additional research helped 
uncover two sets of files: an additional malware dropper 
and a file encryptor. THE GLOBAL RANGE OF THE 
CAMPAIGNS INDICATES THAT THE 
MUSTANG PANDA GROUP HAS  
 
 
 
 
RESOURCES AND CAPABILITIES. 
WE DO NOT EXPECT THIS TO BE 
THEIR LAST ATTACK. POWERFULGlobal Threat Intelligence Report28
TITLE
MUSTANG PANDA USES THE RUSSIAN-
UKRAINIAN WAR TO ATTACK EUROPE AND 
ASIA PACIFIC TARGETS
In December, our continuous monitoring of Mustang 
Panda uncovered  a campaign targeting entities across 
multiple countries and continents. 
This campaign relied on thematic lures (such as a file 
titled “Political Guidance for the New EU Approach 
Towards Russia.rar”) related to current geopolitical 
events. The lure contained a decoy document and LNK 
file that followed the same naming convention as the 
lure RAR file. Additional components included legitimate 
utilities that are susceptible to DLL search order hijacking, 
malicious DLL loaders, and DAT payloads similar to 
components that the group has used in the past.
The goal of the execution chain is to deliver a PlugX 
payload into the host system’s memory that provides full 
remote access capabilities to compromised hosts.
Although the core execution chain and TTPs in this 
campaign have been seen before, these attacks 
demonstrated subtle changes, including a small 
alteration in execution flow so that the function 
EnumSystemCodePagesW was used for shellcode 
execution instead of EnumThreadWindows. This 
modest modification required adjustments to defensive 
awareness and countermeasures to ensure the most 
effective protection.
By pivoting off a unique domain SSL certificate, we were 
able to uncover 15 additional IP addresses, five of which 
were C2 servers for the Mustang Panda group that serve 
similar files conforming to the same attack chain and 
TTPs to additional locations and victims.
The global range of the campaigns indicates that the 
group has powerful resources and capabilities. We do not 
expect this to be their last attack. ADDITIONAL ATTACKS
EMOTET
Emotet is an elaborate and continually evolving malware 
family that recently returned to the spotlight in November 
2022. Attributed to the criminal entity TA542 and also 
known as Heodo or Geodo, the malware has seen many 
iterations since its conception in 201437. 
Delivered via email, Emotet’s initial stager is often a 
Trojanized Microsoft® Excel® document. It relies on 
deception to persuade the victim to open the attachment 
and disregard pop-up security warnings. Emotet targets 
can vary widely and its lure documents masquerade as 
a range of topics across multiple languages and regions. 
When a victim ignores warnings and allows the execution 
of the fake documents, the malware’s intended payload 
attempts to download. After the malware is installed, 
it can carry out a wide range of functions including 
dropping and deploying additional malware.
CRYWIPER
In early December, details emerged about CryWiper, a 
new malware wiper. CryWiper is unique because it was 
specifically designed and deployed to target entities in 
Russia, including courts and mayors’ offices38. 
At first glance, CryWiper behaves like typical ransomware, 
including removing system shadow copies to prevent 
recovery of affected files; encrypting and appending the 
.CRY extension to affected files; and dropping a README.
txt ransom note that contains instructions for paying the 
ransom to recover the files. However, CryWiper is not 
ransomware: it’s a wiper. Like all wipers, CryWiper’s goal is to 
corrupt and destroy files on the target systems so that they 
are unrecoverable by any means, even if the ransom is paid.
CryWiper achieves this level of file devastation with 
the use of Mersenne Vortex, a pseudo random number 
generator (PRNG) algorithm that overwrites and destroys 
the original contents of the files with no hope of recovery.Global Threat Intelligence Report29
The past quarter (and 2022 in general) revealed 
significant cybersecurity trends that are likely to 
continue throughout 2023 and beyond. The number 
of politically motivated threat actors continues 
to grow, with threats including the distribution of 
misinformation and disinformation through fake news 
sites, tracking the actions and behaviors of journalists 
and dissidents, and attempted direct attacks on 
government and military organizations. 
Across the board, threat actors used an array of methods 
that include newly identified tools and techniques as well 
as modifications to existing tools that enable them to 
better evade detection. The growth of targeted attacks in 
the automotive, healthcare, and financial industries cast 
a harsh light on the critical need to protect these sectors’ 
expansive and vulnerable threat surfaces. 
Defending your organization against malware and 
cyberattacks requires in-depth knowledge of how threat 
actors are targeting your industry, the tools that they use, 
and their possible motivations. This detailed knowledge 
provides contextual, anticipative, and actionable 
cyberthreat intelligence that can reduce the impact of 
threats on your organization. 
LESSONS LEARNED / TAKEAWAYS
 •In addition to financial motivation, increasing numbers 
of threat actors are now targeting individual and institutional victims based on economics, geopolitics, 
and societal circumstances. Defenders must 
proactively consider the possible impact of economic 
and political developments on cybersecurity.
 •Threat actors are increasingly using less common 
or exotic programming languages such as GoLang 
and Rust to develop new malware. Threat hunters 
must remain vigilant and learn how the use of novel 
programming languages can manifest in attacks. 
Because GoLang supports cross-platform coding, more 
attacks on Linux and macOS may occur in the future. 
 •Wider access to initial access tools resulted in major 
incidents in 2022, as did the availability of ransomware 
as a managed service to groups without sufficient 
technical skills to create their own malware. As a result, 
use of ransomware by nation-state threat actors grew.  
 •The automotive industry was heavily impacted 
by a wide variety of cyberattacks in 2022. The 
compromise of large-scale manufacturers and 
industry suppliers resulted in stoppages across a 
number of production lines. These strings of attacks 
are likely to continue into 2023.
 •Supply chain attacks that abuse legitimate apps to 
deliver malicious payloads can be mitigated and even 
prevented by implementing zero-trust policies that 
require continual authentication and authorization to 
access networks and applications.FORECASTCONCLUSIONS AND
FOR Q1 2023Global Threat Intelligence Report30
TITLE
Q1 2023 FORECAST
 •To date, a key characteristic of Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine has included cyberattacks against Ukrainian 
military and civilian infrastructure. If hostilities 
continue, we are likely to see this pattern of targeted 
cyberattacks repeated. 
 •Ransomware operations targeting hospitals and 
medical organizations will continue, especially in 
countries that support or fund Ukraine. 
 •Cyberattacks on critical infrastructure will continue. 
AI may be increasingly used not only for attack 
automation, but also to develop advanced deepfake 
attacks. 
 •Attacks on European financial institutions, like the 
September 2022 attack on U.K.-based Revolut (a 
popular fintech company and app) that compromised 
more than 50,000 customer records, may also 
continue.
 •In the Americas, we predict an explosion of 
commercial mobile spyware attacks. We expect 
that threat actors in Brazil will further expand 
Trojan banking attacks from desktop systems to 
mobile devices and continue targeting victims in 
Latin America. In fact, December 2022 revealed the 
BrasDex malware family39, which specifically targets 
Brazilian banking including PIX, a payment system 
similar to Zelle in the U.S.
 •Attacks on Linux systems may continue to fly under 
the radar, especially those that virtualize systems, 
drop ransomware and install backdoors on target 
systems. 
 •We expect more targeted attacks on cloud 
infrastructure in every industry, as threat actors seek 
to gain additional visibility into the organizations that 
they seek to undermine or extract profit. RESOURCES  
The following BlackBerry Threat Research and 
Intelligence resources are available.
PUBLIC INDICATORS OF COMPROMISE 
(IOCS)
The BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence 
team publishes the indicators of compromise 
(IoCs) related to analyzed campaigns in our public 
GitHub repository. All IoCs and other actionable 
information mentioned in our threat reports, blogs, 
and white papers (such as YARA or Sigma Rules) 
can be found in the BlackBerry Threat Research & 
Intelligence Team Public GitHub . 
PUBLIC RULES
The BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence 
team has authored YARA rules to identify many of 
the threats discussed in this document. Our YARA 
rules are publicly available here .  
COMMON MITRE TECHNIQUES
The BlackBerry Threat Research and Intelligence 
team relies on multiple MITRE techniques, event 
analysis and telemetry to analyze threats. A 
full list  of MITRE techniques is located in the 
MITRE ATT&CK Navigator Layer generated by the 
BlackBerry team. 
MITRE D3FEND COUNTERMEASURES
A complete list of attack techniques and 
associated countermeasures is located in 
the Blogs and Reports section of our GitHub 
repository . Global Threat Intelligence Report31
XXXXXXXXXXXX
TITLE
REFERENCES
1 https://www.uber.com/newsroom/security-update/
2 https://www.computerworld.com/article/3604601/macs-
reach-23-share-in-us-enterprises-idc-confirms.html
3 https://www.developer.com/news/90-of-
the-public-cloud-runs-on-linux/
4 https://sysdig.com/blog/malware-analysis-shellbot-sysdig/
5 https://threatpost.com/sysrv-k-botnet-
targets-windows-linux/179646/
6 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-22947
7 https://yoroi.company/research/outlaw-is-back-a-new-
crypto-botnet-targets-european-organizations/
8	 https://sandflysecurity.com/blog/log4j-
kinsing-linux-malware-in-the-wild/
9 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=cve-2021-44228
10 https://cyware.com/news/kinsing-operators-target-weblogic-
servers-and-docker-apis-for-cryptomining-5ce39d4b
11 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-14882
12 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-26134
13 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-2725
14 https://twitter.com/MsftSecIntel/status/1542281836742729733
15 https://www.statista.com/statistics/272698/global-market-
share-held-by-mobile-operating-systems-since-2009
16 https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-
transportation/continental-investigates-cyberattack-
after-report-says-data-up-sale-2022-11-15/
17	 https://www.juniperresearch.com/press/in-vehicle-
commerce-opportunities-exceed-775mn
18 https://www.lv.com/insurance/press/keyless-technology-
drives-rise-in-theft-over-past-four-years
19 https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/newsroom/
news/31-arrested-for-stealing-cars-hacking-keyless-tech
20 https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-39906534
21 https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0050/
22 https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/topic/
biggest-data-breaches-of-2019-so-far/
23 https://www.zdnet.com/article/bmw-and-hyundai-
hacked-by-vietnamese-hackers-report-claims/24 https://www.zdnet.com/article/europes-biggest-
car-dealer-hit-with-ransomware-attack/
25 https://www.broshuis.com/news/ransomware-attack
26	 https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/japans-
bridgestone-reports-ransomware-attack-us-subsidiary-2022-03-18/
27 https://europe.autonews.com/automakers/toyota-
suspend-output-japan-after-supplier-hit-cyberattack
28 https://www.nhtsa.gov/press-releases/nhtsa-updates-
cybersecurity-best-practices-new-vehicles
29 https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/commonspirit-
health-ransomware-attack-exposed-data-of-623-000-patients/
30 https://www.cisa.gov/emergency-directive-21-02
31 https://asec.ahnlab.com/en/27346/
32 https://malpedia.caad.fkie.fraunhofer.de/details/elf.rekoobe
33 https://www.computerweekly.com/news/252525240/ALPHV-
BlackCat-ransomware-family-becoming-more-dangerous
34 https://www.securitymagazine.com/articles/97489-
blackcat-alphv-ransomware-breaches-60-organizations
35 https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0129/
36 https://twitter.com/invimacolombia/
status/1577455552954712064?s=20&t=JYJsQ6PFhxBv3YHim_
PQrw
37 https://malpedia.caad.fkie.fraunhofer.de/actor/mummy_spider
38 https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/new-
crywiper-data-wiper-targets-russian-courts-mayor-s-offices/
39 https://thehackernews.com/2022/12/beware-
cybercriminals-launch-new.htmlDisclaimer: The information contained in this report is intended for educational purposes only.  
BlackBerry does not guarantee or take responsibility for the accuracy, completeness and reliability of any 
third-party statements or research referenced herein. The analysis expressed in this report reflects the 
current understanding of available information by our research analysts and may be subject to change 
as additional information is made known to us. Readers are responsible for exercising their own due 
diligence when applying this information to their private and professional lives. BlackBerry does not 
condone any malicious use or misuse of the information presented in this report.About BlackBerry: BlackBerry (NYSE: BB; TSX: BB) provides intelligent security software 
and services to enterprises and governments around the world. The company secures 
more than 500M endpoints including over 215M vehicles. Based in Waterloo, Ontario, 
the company leverages AI and machine learning to deliver innovative solutions in the 
areas of cybersecurity, safety and data privacy solutions, and is a leader in the areas 
of endpoint security, endpoint management, encryption, and embedded systems.  
BlackBerry’s vision is clear - to secure a connected future you can trust.
 For more information, visit BlackBerry.com  and follow @BlackBerry .
©2023 BlackBerry Limited. Trademarks, including but not limited to BLACKBERRY, EMBLEM Design and 
CYLANCE are the trademarks or registered trademarks of BlackBerry Limited, its subsidiaries and/or 
affiliates, used under license, and the exclusive rights to such trademarks are expressly reserved. All 
other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. BlackBerry is not responsible for any third-
party products or services. This document may not be modified, reproduced, transmitted, or copied, in 
part or whole, without the express written permission of BlackBerry Limited.
January 2023 Edition