Cyber 
Threat 
Intelligence 
ReportState-Sponsored  
Cyber Threat Actors
Cybersecurity Division
Compiled by Tasha-Gaye Braham
Date: 21 December 2022
2
Classification: Protected ACyber Threat Intelligence Report
In today’s age, the number of internet users is climbing each day. According to Statistics Canada, 75% 
of Canadians aged 15 years and older engage in various internet-related activities more often since 
the onset of the pandemic. The usage of technology in the corporate world has also increased since 
COVID-19, and while we are post-pandemic, there are no signs of that decreasing. In this report we detail 
threats which are impacting Canadians through state-sponsor cyber threat activities, based on the National 
Cyber Threat Assessment by the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security [CCCS]. The increase in technology 
usage, including the high-volume use of cloud computing, has made Canadians’ valuable information 
vulnerable, due to risks such as cloud servers potentially being located outside of Canada’s borders. These 
changes in technology use increases the likelihood that threats against Canadians will be carried out by 
state-sponsored cyber threat actors. 
State-sponsored cyber threat actors are cybercriminals working on behalf of nation-states. These groups 
are usually the most sophisticated cybercriminals, as they have access to dedicated resources, the best 
cybercriminal personnel, extensive budgets, and time. The state-sponsored cyber threat actors detailed in 
the National Cyber Threat Assessment as targeting Canadians were shown to come primarily from China, 
Iran, and Saudi Arabia.  
How state-sponsored threat actors target Canadians using cyber means can vary greatly. 
Below we will explore some methods that are known to be used. Summary of Threat
Weaponizing Disaffected Groups and Activists in Canada 
State-sponsored groups often target Canadians who may be sympathetic to their cause, like activists and 
members of specific groups (such as ethnic or religious groups), who are located in various geographic 
locations across the country or world. These state groups include resource heavy, skilled individuals who 
utilize content monitoring, social media campaigns, intelligence gained from spyware, and other cyber 
threat vectors in an effort to monitor Canadians’ online presence to identify the groups they associate with 
and their stance on and involvement in activism. 
According to reports from  The Citizen Lab  at the University of Toronto, “cyber threat activity targets activists 
in Canada through disinformation or intimidation on social media, denial of service attacks against their 
organizations, and compromise of their personal devices” (CCCS, 2022, p. 13).  
State-sponsored attackers with highly sophisticated attack methods and governments behind them, are 
able to gain access to monitor, track, and compromise the privacy of Canadians. This is accomplished 
through a number of different means such as: 
 ◘  the group accessing large databases of personal information and using data science to identify, 
profile, and track individuals; 
 ◘  foreign states compelling private organization to supply personal data, which threaten the privacy 
of Canadians; and
 ◘  the target having a lack of appropriate safeguards, through which Personal Identifiable Information 
[PII] can be compromised.  What is a zero-day vulnerability?
A zero-day vulnerability 
is a vulnerability in a 
system or device that 
has been disclosed 
but is not yet patched. 
(TrendMicro, 2022)
Classification: Protected ACompromising Canadians via Worldwide 
Campaigns 
Targeting Canada’s Economic Value 
through Commercial Cyber Espionage  
3 Cyber Threat Intelligence ReportState-sponsored threat actors are attempting to 
compromise Canadians in worldwide, widespread 
campaigns by taking advantage of zero-day 
vulnerabilities. A zero-day vulnerability is an 
unpatched but known vulnerability in a software 
program. The state-sponsor’s goal using this threat 
vector is to carry out widespread cyberattack 
campaigns, in hopes of stealing intellectual 
property and personal information. 
Threat actors usually aim for software or 
programs that have widespread use around 
the world, such as a web browser or commonly 
used product. This is because a successful 
compromise will give them access to as many 
peoples’ personal information or intellectual 
property as possible, which includes a great 
amount of Canadian data and PII. An example 
of this is the Microsoft Exchange server 
compromise, which affected an estimated 
400,000 servers, and over 9,000 of these servers 
which are likely to have been vulnerable were 
Canadian servers.   
According to Crowd Strike , cyber espionage is a 
type of cyberattack in which an unauthorized user 
attempts to access sensitive or classified data or 
intellectual property for economic gain, competitive 
advantage, or for political reasons. 
Commercial cyber espionage is a subsect of 
cyber espionage and focuses on the unsanctioned 
access of confidential data or trade secrets related 
to commercial endeavours. 
This can include the:  
 ◘ exploitation of supply chain vulnerabilities; 
 ◘ theft of Intellectual property; 
 ◘ foreign intelligence operations; 
 ◘  underhanded or secretive procurement of 
equipment or materials; and 
 ◘ violation of export controls. Focusing on Cyber Means to Raise Money 
Cryptocurrency is the new “get rich quick” scheme 
that has flooded the world in recent years and 
cyberattackers have latched onto this as a means 
of gaining funds. For example, North Korean state-
sponsored cyber threat actors have made a move 
to alleviate the impact of international economic 
sanctions by garnering financial support through 
malicious cryptocurrency trading applications. 
These malicious applications compromise users’ 
credentials and allow the threat actors to access 
and steal the money the individual has linked to 
their cryptocurrency account. 
Due to the newness of cryptocurrency and 
people not understanding the potential for 
these applications to be compromised, several 
individuals have fallen, and will continue to fall, 
victim to this type of cyberattack. Using Tools to Obfuscate Activities and 
Avoid Attribution 
Ransomware is used to carry out commercial 
cyber espionage as well. State-sponsored 
threat actors use ransomware to steal valuable 
information from corporations, and then demand 
a ransom to release back the information to the 
rightful owners. Sometimes ransomware also 
includes cybercriminals locking access to the data 
and information systems, holding access behind a 
ransom. 
These threat actors also use techniques, tools, 
and procedures to cover their tracks so that 
organizations and individuals do not recognize it as 
an attack until the ransom is sent, making it difficult 
to determine the root cause or ascribe blame. 4
Classification: Protected ACyber Threat Intelligence Report
Social Media Campaign – internet 
users use social media to connect 
with friends, family, and their 
communities. There is also the 
business side of social media, 
where professional networking 
takes place and companies and 
employees post company-related 
news and information. Cyber threat 
actors use social media to aid in 
gathering information about their 
targets.  According to Trend Micro 
researchers, “[p]osting on social 
media has become ubiquitous 
not just for people but also for 
businesses and governments 
around the world” (Gibson et al, 
2022). Social media, when used 
for personal reasons, is intended 
to share personal moments. For 
organizations, social media is 
meant to aid with connecting and 
communicating with its users/
customers. Professionals use 
social media as a way to network 
and make money.   ◘  The personal social media 
accounts of GoA officials can 
be monitored by threat actors 
for biometrics from photos, 
videos, audio recording, and 
other information that is posted. 
Information from social media 
can be used in an inference 
attack; this is a data mining 
technique where threat actors 
analyze available public data to 
gain knowledge about protected 
information, (e.g., piecing 
together public information 
from various sources to access 
protected data).
 ◘  Advertising, promoting, or 
informing users/customers 
about project initiation or 
completion on social media can 
expose critical information that 
threat actors can use to aid in 
attack against the organization.  
Spyware  is a malicious piece 
of software that finds its way 
onto our internet connected 
devices. It usually gets installed 
on our devices just by visiting 
a vulnerable web page or even 
through accepting terms and 
conditions without reading the 
fine print. This piece of software 
monitors everything we do on our 
devices, from websites we visit, 
to information we type into these 
websites to sensitive information.  State-sponsored cyber threat 
actors’ use spyware tools to 
compromise personal and company 
devices. These threat actors have 
access to sophisticated, powerful 
tools which do not even require any 
additional actions from users, apart 
from visiting a website. Spyware is 
usually a small piece of software 
that is extremely hard to detect and 
uninstall from the infected device 
or system. State-sponsored threat 
actors can gain an enormous 
amount of classified data from 
users this way.   ◘  Spyware downloads are 
usually obscured in the form 
of accepting user agreement 
policies/terms and condition. 
Once these policies are 
accepted, the spyware is 
downloaded to the system/
device, unbeknownst to the 
user.  
 ◘  Pegasus is a spyware 
developed by the Israeli cyber 
arms company NSO group. 
Zero-day vulnerabilities are 
unpatched vulnerabilities found in a 
vendor supplied application before 
security researchers, or software 
developers have a chance to build a 
security patch. Cyber threat actors 
can exploit these vulnerabilities 
prior to them being fixed.  According to DarkReading “Zero-
Day Exploit Use Exploded in 2021” 
(Vijayan, 2022). Ransomware and 
other financially motivated threat 
actors joined nation-state-backed 
groups in leveraging unpatched 
flaws in attack campaigns, new 
data shows, aided by the increased 
use of Cloud applications, Internet 
of Things [IOT] devices, and Agile 
development.  ◘  Zero-day exploits are out of 
the control of the organization 
using the application/software; 
however, there are ways to 
protect against falling victim of 
a zero-day exploit.  Assessment of Threats
Threat Activity Description Issues How is the GoA Affected?5
Classification: Protected ACyber Threat Intelligence Report
Threat Activity Description Issues How is the GoA Affected?
Commercial cyber espionage  
is a subsect of cyber espionage 
and focuses on the unsanctioned 
access of confidential data or trade 
secrets related to commercial 
endeavours.  According to a CrowdStrike write 
up on cyber espionage, “target 
campaigns can be waged against 
individuals, such as prominent 
political leaders and government 
officials, and business executives” 
(Baker, 2022) Commercial 
espionage is usually conducted 
by state-sponsored threat actors, 
who use many different vectors to 
establish an undetected presence 
on networks as a means to steal 
sensitive data over time.  ◘  Most commercial cyber 
espionage carried out by 
state-sponsored nations are 
well-funded. The vectors 
include, but are not limited to, 
zero-day exploits, spyware, 
ransomware, etc.
Supply Chain Attacks are when 
cyber threat actors seek to cause 
damage and exploit an organization 
by attacking weaker elements in 
the supply chain to gain access and 
attack an organization. Organizations use applications 
from different vendors (e.g., 
Microsoft, Adobe, Cisco, etc.) 
to complete their work. Cyber 
threat actors will often target 
these applications’ source codes, 
usually through application 
updates, to get the malicious 
code into the trusted applications. 
Government entities do not have 
the capability to develop complex 
in-house software. As a result, the 
government will continue to be 
dependent on supply chains, which 
are becoming more enticing for 
threat actors. ◘  The GoA uses products from a 
number of outside partners and 
providers, who have access to 
GoA systems as a result. Any 
companies that supply these 
third-party software/services 
are vulnerable to supply chain 
attacks. According to a CSO data 
breach report, “[n]ation-state 
actors have deep resources and 
the skills to penetrate even the 
most security-conscious firms” 
(Korolov, 2021). 
 ◘  The GoA is dependent on 
multiple software vendors in order 
to operate effectively, so it is also 
at risk for supply chain attacks.Ransomware  is an ever-changing 
type of malware that cyber threat 
actors use to gain unauthorized 
access to and encrypt critical 
information, making it inaccessible 
for legitimate users. The threat 
actors then request a ransom be 
paid before providing a decryption 
key and releasing the information 
back to the users. Payment does 
not guarantee anything though, 
as the data is usually already 
breached and sometimes is not 
released upon receipt of the 
ransom payment. According to the National Cyber 
Threat Assessment, “ransomware 
is almost certainly the most 
disruptive form of cybercrime 
facing Canadians” (CCCS, 2022, 
p. iv). This threat uses various 
threat vectors to find its way to 
the targets. No organization can 
fully protect against these threat 
vectors; however, they can put 
things in place to safeguard 
against them. State-sponsored 
actors will use ransomware to 
enable other malicious threat 
activities on governments and 
organizations while hiding their 
hands. Ransomware as a service 
(RaaS) creates an easier avenue to 
launch and profit from ransomware 
attacks, as it allows threat actors 
to hire professional hackers 
specializing in ransomware to 
complete the technical work.   ◘  Ransomware usually enters 
a system through phishing, 
opening attachments, drive-
by-downloading, or by taking 
advantage of software 
vulnerabilities.  Classification: Protected AClassification: Protected A6 Cyber Threat Intelligence ReportRecommendations
Passwords are one of the most popular methods used to protect digital information in today’s world. Having 
a strong password is paramount as cybercriminals know that people only password protect things that are 
important, making passwords prime targets for their attacks. This is the same reason why car keys are popular 
targets for pickpockets. It isn’t just about getting into the car or the system protected by the password, it is 
about what is stored inside, such as personal information, financial information, protected work documents, or 
access to other applications. Most people protect their car keys when they are out and passwords should be 
treated in the same way. 
Some DOs and DON’Ts  of creating strong passwords include: Use Strong Passwords 
 ◘  Make them at least 12 characters long 
 ◘  Use at least three of the following types of 
characters: 
  ◘  upper case letters 
  ◘ lower case letters  
  ◘ numbers 
  ◘  special characters  
  ◘ Unicode characters
 ◘  Use a passphrase rather than a password   ◘  Use the same password across different 
services or applications 
 ◘  Share passwords with other people 
 ◘  Write your passwords down 
 ◘  Use the default password that comes with 
the device, service, or application 
 ◘  Use passwords that are easy for a 
computer to guess (i.e., common words, 
pattern-based passwords, etc.) Do Don’t
We understand that we have just listed a bunch of rules that will help make your password more secure, but 
it also makes it harder to remember. This can be mitigated by creating your secure password or passphrase 
and using a password manager. KeePass is a GoA approved password manager that can manage your 
strong passwords without you having to remember all of them. There are other options, such as 1Password, 
NordPass, and Dashlane, that can be used for personal use as well!  
For more information about creating strong passwords, please review the Cybersecurity Services eCourse on 
Secure Passwords . 
Multi-factor authentication [MFA], sometimes referred to as two-factor authentication or 2FA, is an additional 
layer of identity and access management security. MFA is used in conjunction with credentials, such as a 
username and password, when logging into an account. MFA falls into three categories:  Use Multi-factor Authentication 
What you know
e.g., password, PINWhat you have
e.g., smart card, fobWho you are
e.g., facial scan, fingerprint
For credentials to be considered MFA, they need to be from two categories, such as something you know (a 
password) and something you have (Microsoft Authenticator on your cell phone).  
MFA adds another level of security in the event of a compromised password. A threat actor would need to 
steal your cellphone and be able to access your Microsoft Authenticator app in order to gain access to your 
MFA protected accounts. As mentioned above, state-sponsored actors usually act remotely which limits their 
access to your physical devices. According to a 2015 Google survey, “[u]sing 2FA is one of the top three things 
that security experts do to protect their security online” (Ion, 2015, as cited in NIST , 2022). 7
Classification: Protected ACyber Threat Intelligence Report
The GoA uses MFA to protect the organization from state-sponsored attacks. MFA should be used whenever 
possible, especially on accounts which host the most sensitive or protected data, such as personal identifiable 
information, financial information, classified government information, etc. The most popular MFA authenticator 
apps are the Microsoft Authenticator and Google Authenticator apps. Some accounts offer MFA settings 
through sending a code via text message, email, or a phone call; however , it is recommended to use an MFA 
authenticator app over these other methods as it is the most secure.
MFA is required to access the GoA internal applications (i.e., an application that is not accessible by non-
GoA users). An example of an internal application is 1GX. If a user’s credentials are compromised and their 
1GX account is breached, PII can be compromised and cause great damage to the organization and to the 
individuals impacted. MFA provides an additional layer of security that will prevent an attacker from accessing 
1GX accounts, even if they have the credentials to the account. In the same way it can protect information in 
1GX, MFA is also able to prevent data/account breaches on social media, banking, personal email and other 
personal accounts. It is highly recommended to enable MFA on all accounts with MFA options offered. 
For more information about setting up MFA for your GoA account, please view the GoA MFA Enrollment Portal . 
For more details about the risks and benefits of using MFA, consider reviewing the MFA section of the Secure 
Passwords  course.
According to Surfshark, a virtual private network [VPN] “sets up a secure tunnel between two devices over the 
internet and encrypts your information. Encryption happens on your device before this data is forwarded to the 
VPN server. There, it is decrypted again and sent to its online destination” (Rimeikis, 2022). VPNs are especially 
important, when using home or public Wi-Fi, as these are the internet connections that are most vulnerable to 
cyber-attack. These types of connection do not usually have maximum security configurations applied. Use Virtual Private Network 
Backing up your data securely is very important in case something goes wrong. 
This could be something as minor as accidentally deleting a file to the theft of a 
device to a calculated cyberattack. Data backups are useful because they allow for 
information to be restored in cases where the original is unavailable in some way.  
Instances of ransomware are prime examples of when having a secure backup has 
been helpful, as it often can allow the systems to be restored to a previous state with 
reduced loss of information and without paying a ransom. Use Secure Backups 
In the GoA, your files are backed up automatically if you store your files in OneDrive. At home, there are 
several methods you can use ranging from regularly copying and pasting your files to an external storage drive 
and storing that drive in a fireproof safe to using the native backup application on your device (for example, 
Time Machine for Apple or File History for Windows). Cloud backups are also a tool that can be used to 
backup personal files. This method saves your data offsite in a remote Cloud database, a technique mirroring 
how OneDrive works. VPNs do not prevent spyware from being downloaded onto your devices, but a VPN 
will protect your activities from being monitored. They are also able to hide your location 
from state-sponsored threat actors who are targeting Canadians. VPNs also protect the 
confidentiality of data being transmitted across networks, which protects information from 
eavesdropping whilst in transit.  
 
Whenever using GoA provided devices, personal devices used for GoA business, or working 
on GoA materials the AnyConnect VPN is required to be used. As for personal use, a VPN 
is recommended for privacy protection. A few recommended personal VPN providers are 
Surfshark, Private Internet Access, CyberGhost, and NordVPN.One of the biggest things you can do to protect yourself is be aware of potential risks and threats that could 
affect your cybersecurity. This doesn’t mean you have to be an expert in cybersecurity but do be aware of 
notices that are sent out about specific threats or issues that are ongoing. Keeping on top of the training 
provided by the GoA is another good way to keep yourself educated about potential issues or red flags 
regarding cyber threats. 
Cybercriminals are getting better with their attacks and are using more sophisticated programs to hack people, 
so it is getting harder and harder to keep yourself educated. However, by always taking the time to question 
and verify things that seem slightly off or unusual you can keep yourself both safe and knowledgeable. 
Remember, with the security of your information, it is always better to be safe than sorry. 
If you have any questions about cybersecurity or any of the information provided in this report, please feel free 
to contact the Cybersecurity Division  and we will be happy to answer any questions you may have! Maintain Educational Awareness Anti-Malware is used to protect information technology [IT] systems and individual devices from malicious 
software or viruses. Anti-malware programs are able to actively scan systems and devices for threats. These 
programs are constantly running and can quickly detect any malicious piece of software and once detected, 
the program is able to quarantine the malware/virus from infecting the other parts of the system or device. It 
will then notify you that a threat has been detected and quarantined. Anti-malware programs should be on all 
your devices; however, more than one anti-malware program should not be installed at the same time. This 
is because having multiple anti-malware programs running concurrently will have a negative impact on the 
effectiveness of how these programs do their jobs. All GoA devices have anti-malware programs installed. 
In regard to personal devices, there are a number of free anti-malware programs that are available, such 
as Malwarebytes, Avast, Kaspersky, Assemblyline, and TrendMicro. Anti-malware programs will protect our 
systems against malware and viruses downloaded from the internet.Use Anti-Malware
Baker, K. (2022, June 1). What is cyber espionage?. CrowdStrike . https://www.crowdstrike.com/cybersecuri -
ty-101/cyberattacks/cyber-espionage/
Canadian Centre for Cyber Security. (2022). National Cyber Threat Assessment . https://www.cyber.gc.ca/sites/
default/files/ncta-2023-24-web.pdf
Gibson, C., Kropotov, V., Lin, P.Z., McArdle, R., & Yarochkin, F. (2022, October 18). Leaked today, exploited for 
life: How social media biometric patterns affect your future. Trend Micro . https://tinyurl.com/mpcb76uf
Ion, I. (2015, July 23). New research: Comparing how security experts and non-experts stay safe online. Goo-
gle Security Blog . https://security.googleblog.com/2015/07/new-research-comparing-how-security.html
Korolov, M. (2021, December 27). Supply chain attacks show why you should be wary of third-party providers. 
CSO . https://tinyurl.com/2tvfw4aa
NIST. (2022, February 16). Back to basics: Multi-factor authentication (MFA). NIST . https://www.nist.gov/
back-basics-multi-factor-authentication
Rimeikis, A. (2022, November 14). Does a VPN protect you from hackers in 2022?. Surfshark . https://surf -
shark.com/blog/does-vpn-protect-you-from-hackers
Trend Micro. (2022). Zero-day vulnerability. Trend Micro . https://www.trendmicro.com/vinfo/us/security/defini -
tion/zero-day-vulnerability
Vijayan, J. (2022, April 21). Zero-day exploit use exploded in 2021. DarkReading . https://www.darkreading.
com/threat-intelligence/zero-day-exploit-use-exploded-in-2021References & Further Reading
8
Classification: Protected ACyber Threat Intelligence Report
